What's the difference between Softmax and Sigmoid functions?  Related To: Logistic Regression

Name some classification metrics and when would you use each one  

Provide an intuitive explanation of Linear Support Vector Machines (SVMs)  Related To: SVM

Could you convert Regression into Classification and vice versa?  

What's the difference between One-vs-Rest and One-vs-One?  Related To: Data Processing

How does the Naive Bayes classifier work?  Related To: Naïve Bayes

How do you use a supervised Logistic Regression for Classification?  Related To: Logistic Regression, Supervised Learning

What is a Confusion Matrix?  Related To: Supervised Learning, Model Evaluation

What's the difference between Generative Classifiers and Discriminative Classifiers? Name some examples of each one  Related To: Naïve Bayes

What are some advantages and disadvantages of using AUC to measure the performance of the model?  Related To: Model Evaluation

What is the F-Score?  Related To: Statistics, Model Evaluation

Name some advantages of using Support Vector Machines vs Logistic Regression for classification  Related To: SVM, Logistic Regression

How is AUC - ROC curve used in classification problems?   Related To: Model Evaluation

When would you use SVM vs Logistic regression?  Related To: SVM, Logistic Regression

How would you use a Confusion Matrix for determining a model performance?  Related To: Data Processing, Model Evaluation

Compare Naive Bayes vs with Logistic Regression to solve classification problems  Related To: Logistic Regression, Naïve Bayes

What are the trade-offs between the different types of Classification Algorithms? How would do you choose the best one?  Related To: Ensemble Learning, Naïve Bayes

How would you Calibrate Probabilities for a classification model?  Related To: Probability

Are there any problems using Naive Bayes for Classification?  Related To: Naïve Bayes

What's the difference between Random Oversampling and Random Undersampling and when they can be used?  Related To: Data Processing

How would you deal with classification on Non-linearly Separable data?  Related To: SVM

How would you choose an evaluation metric for an Imbalanced classification?  Related To: Model Evaluation

What is AIC?  Related To: Model Evaluation

Can Logistic Regression be used for an Imbalanced Classification problem?  Related To: Logistic Regression

What's the difference between ROC and Precision-Recall Curves?  Related To: Model Evaluation

How to interpret F-measure values?  Related To: Model Evaluation

Why would you use Probability Calibration?  Related To: Probability

Define what is Clustering?  

Give examples of using Clustering to solve real-life problems  

What are Self-Organizing Maps?  Related To: Neural Networks

Why do you need to perform Significance Testing in Clustering?  

What is the Jaccard Index?  

What is Similarity-based Clustering?  

What is Mean-Shift Clustering?  

What is the difference between a Multiclass problem and a Multilabel problem?  Related To: Supervised Learning

What is the difference between the two types of Hierarchical Clustering?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning

What is the Mixture in Gaussian Mixture Model?  

How can Evolutionary Algorithms be used for Clustering?  Related To: Genetic Algorithms

What would be a good way to use Clustering for Outlier detection?  Related To: Anomaly Detection

What are some of the differences between Anomaly Detection and Behaviour Detection?  Related To: Anomaly Detection

What is the difference between Cost Function vs Gradient Descent?  Related To: Gradient Descent

Explain the steps of k-Means Clustering Algorithm  Related To: K-Means Clustering

Provide an analogy for a Cost Function in real life  

Explain what is Cost (Loss) Function in Machine Learning?  

What is the difference between Objective function, Cost function and Loss function  

What is the Hinge Loss in SVM?  Related To: SVM, Classification

Why don’t we use Mean Squared Error as a cost function in Logistic Regression?  Related To: Logistic Regression

What type of Cost Functions do Greedy Splitting use?  Related To: Decision Trees

How would you fix Logistic Regression Overfitting problem?  Related To: Linear Regression, Model Evaluation

How would you choose the Loss Function for a Deep Learning model?  Related To: Deep Learning

What is the Objective Function of k-Means?  Related To: K-Means Clustering

What Distance Function do you use for Quantitative Data?  Related To: Data Processing

What are some necessary Mathematical Properties a Loss Function needs to have in Gradient-Based Optimization?  Related To: Gradient Descent

What are some different types of Clustering Structures that are used in Clustering Algorithms?  

What is Latent Class Model?  

What is Silhouette Analysis?  

What is the difference between the Manhattan Distance and Euclidean Distance in Clustering?  Related To: K-Means Clustering

When would you use Hierarchical Clustering over Spectral Clustering?  

Name some pros and cons of Mean Shift Clustering 


While performing K-Means Clustering, how do you determine the value of K?  Related To: K-Means Clustering

Compare Hierarchical Clustering and k-Means Clustering  Related To: K-Means Clustering

Where do the Similarities come from in Similarity-based Clustering? 

 
What is a Mixture Model?  Related To: K-Means Clustering

How would you perform an Observation-Based Clustering for Time-Series Data?  

What is the difference and connection between Clustering and Dimension Reduction?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning, Dimensionality Reduction

Why does K-Means have a higher bias when compared to Gaussian Mixture Model?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning

Explain how a cluster is formed in the DBSCAN Clustering Algorithm  Related To: Unsupervised Learning

Why is Euclidean Distance not good for Sparse Data?  

How to tell if data is clustered enough for clustering algorithms to produce meaningful results?  Related To: K-Means Clustering, Unsupervised Learning

What makes the distance measurement of k-Medoids better than k-Means?  Related To: K-Means Clustering
When would you use Hierarchical Clustering over k-Means Clustering?  Related To: K-Means Clustering

How does Cluster Algorithms work on detecting Anomalies when the cluster sizes are different?  Related To: Anomaly Detection

When using various Clustering Algorithms, why is Euclidean Distance not a good metric in High Dimensions? 

 
Explain the Dirichlet Process Gaussian Mixture Model  

How to choose among the various clustering Distance Measures?  

What are some characteristics of Clustering Algorithms concerning Anomaly Detection?  Related To: Anomaly Detection

How would you choose the number of Clusters when designing a K-Medoid Clustering Algorithm?  Related To: K-Means Clustering

When would you use Segmentation over Clustering? 

 
What is the motivation behind the Expectation-Maximization Algorithm?  

Explain the different frameworks used for k-Means Clustering  Related To: K-Means Clustering

What is the relationship between k-Means Clustering and PCA?  Related To: K-Means Clustering, PCA

What are Decision Trees?  Related To: Supervised Learning

Explain the structure of a Decision Tree  Related To: Supervised Learning

What are some advantages of using Decision Trees?  

How is a Random Forest related to Decision Trees?  Related To: Ensemble Learning, Random Forest

How are the different nodes of decision trees represented?  Related To: Supervised Learning

What type of node is considered Pure?  

How would you deal with an Overfitted Decision Tree?  

What are some disadvantages of using Decision Trees and how would you solve them?  Related To: Ensemble Learning, Data Processing

What type of Cost Functions do Greedy Splitting use?  Related To: Cost Function

What is Gini Index and how is it used in Decision Trees?  

What is the Chi-squared test?  

How does the CART algorithm produce Regression Trees?  

What is Tree Bagging?  Related To: Ensemble Learning

What is the difference between OOB score and validation score?  Related To: Ensemble Learning, Random Forest

What is Greedy Splitting?  

Why do you need to Prune the decision tree?  

How does the CART algorithm produce Classification Trees?  

How would you define the Stopping Criteria for decision trees? 
 
What is Entropy?  Related To: Machine Learning

How do we measure the Information?  Related To: Machine Learning

What is the difference between Post-pruning and Pre-pruning?  

Compare Linear Regression and Decision Trees  Related To: Linear Regression

What is Tree Boosting?  Related To: Ensemble Learning

How would you tune a Random Forest algorithm to improve its performance?  

Imagine that you know there are outliers in your data, would you use Logistic Regression?  Related To: Anomaly Detection, Logistic Regression, Random Forest

What are some disadvantages of the CHAID algorithm?  

Explain how ID3 produces classification trees?  

Compare ID3 and C4.5 algorithms  

What is the relationship between Information Gain and Information Gain Ratio?  

Compare Decision Trees and k-Nearest Neighbors  Related To: K-Nearest Neighbors

While building Decision Tree how do you choose which attribute to split at each node?

  
How would you compare different Algorithms to build Decision Trees?  
How do you Gradient Boost decision trees?  Related To: Ensemble Learning

What are the differences between Decision Trees and Neural Networks?  Related To: Neural Networks

How to use Isolation Forest for Anomalies detection?  Related To: Anomaly Detection

What is the difference between Gini Impurity and Entropy in Decision Tree?  

When should I use Gini Impurity as opposed to Information Gain (Entropy)?
  
Explain the CHAID algorithm  

Explain how can CART algorithm perform Pruning?
  
Compare C4.5 and C5.0 algorithms  

What is the Variance Reduction metric in Decision Trees?  

What is the use of Entropy pertaining to Decision Trees?  Related To: Machine Learning

Compare Decision Trees and Logistic Regression  Related To: Logistic Regression

What is the difference between Gradient Boosting and Adaptive Boosting?  Related To: Supervised Learning

What are the steps for Binary Recursive Partitioning in Decision Trees?  

Explain the measure of goodness used by CART  

How do you extend Decision Trees to Collaborative Filtering?  Related To: Recommendation Systems

Decision Trees Practical Challenges

How to extract the decision rules from Scikit-learn decision tree?  Related To: Scikit-Learn

Explain how you would implement CART training algorithm in plain Python PY Related To: Python

  What is the Curse of Dimensionality and how can Unsupervised Learning help with it?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning, Curse of Dimensionality

What is Principal Component Analysis (PCA)?  Related To: PCA

Explain how do you understand Dimensionality Reduction  Related To: Data Processing

Explain One-Hot Encoding and Label Encoding. Does the dimensionality of the dataset increase or decrease after applying these techniques?  Related To: Feature Engineering
Why is data more sparse in a high-dimensional space?  Related To: Data Processing, Curse of Dimensionality

How is the first principal component axis selected in PCA?  Related To: PCA

How does the Curse of Dimensionality affect Machine Learning models?  Related To: Curse of Dimensionality

What methods of Hyperparameters Tuning do you know?  Related To: Optimisation, ML Design Patterns, Model Evaluation

When would you use Grid Search vs Random Search for Hyperparameter Tuning?  Related To: Optimisation, ML Design Patterns

How does an Isomap perform Dimensionality Reduction?  

What are the two branches of Dimensionality Reduction?  

Why is Centering and Scaling the data important before performing PCA?  Related To: Linear Algebra, PCA

What is Singular Value Decomposition?  

What is the difference between PCA and Random Projection approaches?  Related To: PCA

What are some advantages of using LLE over PCA?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning, PCA

How does Random Projection reduce the dimensionality of a set of points?  

Explain the Sparse Random Projection  

How does High Dimensionality affect Distance-Based Mining Applications?  Related To: Data Mining, Curse of Dimensionality

How does the Curse of Dimensionality affect Privacy Preservation?  Related To: Curse of Dimensionality

What is the Crowding Problem?  

Does kNN suffer from the Curse of Dimensionality and if it why?  Related To: K-Nearest Neighbors, Curse of Dimensionality

How many Dimensionality Reduction Techniques do you know?  

What is the difference and connection between Clustering and Dimension Reduction?  Related To: Clustering, Unsupervised Learning

What's the difference between PCA and t-SNE?  Related To: PCA
Explain the Locally Linear Embedding algorithm for Dimensionality Reduction  Related To: Unsupervised Learning

What is Multidimensional Scaling?  Related To: Data Processing

What is Sparse PCA?  Related To: PCA

When would you use Manifold Learning techniques over PCA?  Related To: PCA

What is Kernel Principal Component Analysis?  

What is t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbour Embedding?  

What are the rules for generating a random matrix when Gaussian Random Projection is used?  

How does the Curse of Dimensionality affect k-Means Clustering?  Related To: K-Means Clustering, Curse of Dimensionality

How does a Deep Neural Network escape/resist the Curse of Dimensionality?  Related To: Deep Learning, Curse of Dimensionality

Why does the hyperparameter optimisation method GridSearch suffer from the Curse of Dimensionality?  Related To: Curse of Dimensionality

Does Random Forest suffer from the Curse of Dimensionality?  Related To: Curse of Dimensionality, Random Forest

Does linear SVMs suffer from the Curse of Dimensionality?  Related To: SVM, Curse of Dimensionality

How does Isometric Mapping (Isomap) work?  

What is Independent Component Analysis? 

 
What is the Hughes Phenomenon?  Related To: Data Structures

How does Normalization reduce the Dimensionality of the Data if you project the data to a Unit Sphere?  Related To: Data Processing

How does the Metric Multidimensional Scaling (MDS) algorithm reduce dimensionality?  
What is Ensemble Learning? 
 
How would you define Random Forest?  Related To: Random Forest

What are Weak Learners?  Related To: Machine Learning

What are Ensemble Methods?  Related To: Random Forest
How is a Random Forest related to Decision Trees?  Related To: Decision Trees, Random Forest

What is Meta-Learning?  

What are the differences between Bagging and Boosting?


How does Stacking work?  

Since Ensemble Learning provides better output most of the time, why do you not use it all the time?  

Would it defeat the purpose of Ensemble Learning to exclude Outliers?  

What are the differences between Homogeneous and Heterogeneous Ensembles?  

Is Random Forest an Ensemble Algorithm?  Related To: Random Forest

What are some Real-World Applications of Ensemble Learning?  

How does Ensemble Systems help in Incremental Learning?  Related To: Deep Learning

What is a Super Learner Algorithm?  

What is the difference between a Weak Learner vs a Strong Learner and why they could be usefu?  Related To: Classification

What's the difference between Bagging and Boosting algorithms?  Related To: Data Processing, Classification, Bias & Variance

How does the AdaBoost algorithm work?  Related To: Classification

What are some disadvantages of using Decision Trees and how would you solve them?  Related To: Decision Trees, Data Processing

What is Tree Bagging?  Related To: Decision Trees

What's the similarities and differences between Bagging, Boosting, Stacking?  Related To: Machine Learning

Explain the concept behind BAGGing  Related To: Random Forest

What is the difference between OOB score and validation score?  Related To: Decision Trees, Random Forest

What is Tree Boosting?  Related To: Decision Trees

How is Gradient Boosting used to improve Supervised Learning?  Related To: Supervised Learning
What is the difference between Ensemble Learning and Multiple Kernel Learning?  

Explain the architecture of a Super Learner Algorithm  

What is the Bagging Algorithm?  

What are some variants of the AdaBoost Algorithm?  

Why do Ensemble Models work better when the Models have Low Correlation?  

In what situations do you not use Ensemble Classifiers?  

What are Ensemble Nystrom Algorithms?  

What is the process of building an Ensemble System?  

Is it posible to apply Ensemble Learning methods to the Quantile Regression Problem?


Why is Model Stacking effective in improving Performance?  

What are the trade-offs between the different types of Classification Algorithms? How would do you choose the best one?  Related To: Naïve Bayes, Classification

How do you Gradient Boost decision trees?  Related To: Decision Trees

Give some reasons to choose Random Forests over Neural Networks  Related To: Neural Networks, Random Forest

Can you use the LASSO method for Base Learner Selection?  

How are Ensemble Methods used with Deep Neural Networks?  Related To: Deep Learning

What are the methods to evaluate Ensembles of Classifiers?  

Explain Discrete AdaBoost Algorithm  

How does Ensemble Learning tackle the No-Free Lunch Dilemma?  

How do you decide to use between Gradient Boosting Trees and Random Forest?  

How would you find the optimal number of random features to consider at each split?  Related To: Random Forest

Summarize the Statistical, Computational, and Representational motivation of Ensemble Learning  

How would you apply the Standard Mixture Models in the context of Regression?  

Explain mathematically the Ensemble Nystrom algorithm  

How is Computational Complexity measured in Ensemble Learning?  Related To: Data Mining

What are some common Machine Learning problems that Unsupervised Learning can help with?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning

What's the difference between Feature Engineering vs. Feature Selection?  Related To: Data Processing

What advantages does Deep Learning have over Machine Learning?  Related To: Deep Learning

Name some benefits of Feature Selection   Related To: Data Processing

Explain One-Hot Encoding and Label Encoding. Does the dimensionality of the dataset increase or decrease after applying these techniques?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction

Can we use PCA for feature selection?  Related To: PCA

What's the difference between Forward Feature Selection and Backward Feature Selection?  

What are the basic objects that a ML pipeline should contain?  Related To: Scikit-Learn

How do you use the F-test to select features?   

What are some recommended choices for Imputation Values?  Related To: ML Design Patterns, Data Processing

How would you improve the performance of Random Forest?  Related To: Random Forest

How would you decide on the importance of variables for the Multivariate Regression model?   Related To: Linear Regression

How has Translation of words improved from the Traditional methods?  Related To: NLP, Neural Networks

How to choose the features for a Neural Network?  Related To: Data Processing, Neural Networks

When would you remove Correlated Variables?  Related To: Data Processing

How do you perform End of Tail Imputation?  

What Feature Selection methods do you know? 

 
How do you perform feature selection with Categorical Data?  

How do you transform a Skewed distribution into a Normal distribution?  Related To: Statistics

How do you perform Principal Component Analysis (PCA)?  Related To: PCA

Explain the Stepwise Regression technique  Related To: Linear Regression

How does the Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) work?  

Why would you use Permutation Feature Importance and how does this algorithm work?  

What's the difference between Principal Component Analysis and Independent Component Analysis?  Related To: PCA

How to perform Feature Engineering on Unknown features?  Related To: Data Processing

When would you use Fine-Tuning vs Feature Extraction in Transfer Learning?  Related To: ML Design Patterns, Data Processing

What is the idea behind the Gradient Descent?  

Explain the intuition behind Gradient Descent algorithm  Related To: Linear Regression

What is the difference between Cost Function vs Gradient Descent?  Related To: Cost Function

What is the difference between Maximum Likelihood Estimation and Gradient Descent? 

 
Can Gradient Descent be applied to Non-Convex Functions?  

What are some types of Gradient Descent do you know?  

Compare the Mini-batch Gradient Descent, Stochastic Gradient Descent, and Batch Gradient Descent  

Explain how does the Gradient descent work in Linear Regression  Related To: Linear Regression

In which case you would use Gradient Descent method or Ordinary Least Squares and why?  Related To: Linear Regression

Name some Evaluation Metrics for Regression Model and when you would use one?  Related To: Linear Regression

How does the Adam method of Stochastic Gradient Descent work?  Related To: Optimisation
How does Batch Size affect the Convergence of SGD and why?  Related To: Optimisation

When should we use Algorithms like Adam as opposed to SGD?  Related To: Optimisation

Compare Batch Gradient Descent and Stochastic Gradient Descent  Related To: Optimisation

When Optimizing a Neural Network, how do you define the Termination Condition for Gradient Descent?  Related To: Optimisation

How do Gradient-Based Algorithms deal with the flat regions with desired points?  

What are some necessary Mathematical Properties a Loss Function needs to have in Gradient-Based Optimization?  Related To: Cost Function

What is the difference between Gradient Descent and Stochastic Gradient Descent?  

Does Gradient Descent always converge to an optimum?  

How is the Adam Optimization Algorithm different when compared to Stochastic Gradient Descent?  

Name some advantages of using Gradient descent vs Ordinary Least Squares for Linear Regression  Related To: Linear Regression

What is the difference between Momentum based Gradient Descent and Nesterov's Accelerated Gradient Descent?  Related To: Optimisation

In what situations would you prefer Coordinate Descent over Gradient Descent?  Related To: Optimisation

What is the Mirror Descent?  Related To: Optimisation

Explain in detail how Momentum-based Gradient Descent and Nesterov's Accelerated Gradient Descent work  Related To: Optimisation

Explain Mathematically, how Stochastic Gradient Descent saves time compared to Standard Gradient Descent.
  
For both Convex, and Non-Convex Problems, does the Gradient in SGD always point to the global extreme value?  Related To: Optimisation

What are some applications of k-Means Clustering?  

What is the difference between KNN and K-means Clustering?  Related To: Supervised Learning, Unsupervised Learning, Classification

Explain what is k-Means Clustering?  

What is the Uniform Effect that k-Means Clustering tends to produce?  

What are some Stopping Criteria for k-Means Clustering?  

Explain the steps of k-Means Clustering Algorithm  Related To: Cost Function

Why does k-Means Clustering use mostly the Euclidean Distance metric? 

What is the main difference between k-Means and k-Nearest Neighbours?  Related To: K-Nearest Neighbors

How does K-Means perform Clustering?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning

What is the use of Fuzzy C-Means Clustering?  

How would you Pre-Process the data for k-Means?  

Explain some cases where k-Means clustering fails to give good results  Related To: Anomaly Detection

How would you perform k-Means on very large datasets?  

What is the difference between traditional k-Means and the SAIL algorithm?  

What is the difference between Classical k-Means and Spherical k-Means?  

What is the k-Means based Consensus Clustering?  

What is the difference between the Manhattan Distance and Euclidean Distance in Clustering?  Related To: Clustering

How to determine k using the Elbow Method? PY Related To: Python

What is the difference between k-Means and k-Medians and when would you use one over another?  

How do you measure the Consistency between different k-Means Clustering outputs?  

What is the Objective Function of k-Means?  Related To: Cost Function

Can you find Outliers using k-Means?  Related To: Anomaly Detection

While performing K-Means Clustering, how do you determine the value of K?  Related To: Clustering

Compare Hierarchical Clustering and k-Means Clustering  Related To: Clustering

What is a Mixture Model?  Related To: Clustering

How is Entropy used as a Clustering Validation Measure?  
How to tell if data is clustered enough for clustering algorithms to produce meaningful results?  Related To: Clustering, Unsupervised Learning

How does Spherical k-Means work with high dimensional data such as text?  

What makes the distance measurement of k-Medoids better than k-Means?  Related To: Clustering

When would you use Hierarchical Clustering over k-Means Clustering?  Related To: Clustering

How to determine k using the Silhouette Method? PY Related To: Python

When would you use Fuzzy C-Means as opposed to k-Means?  

How do the clusters generated by k-Means and Mini Batch k-Means compare?  

How does the Curse of Dimensionality affect k-Means Clustering?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction, Curse of Dimensionality

How would you choose the number of Clusters when designing a K-Medoid Clustering Algorithm?  Related To: Clustering

How does Forgy Initialization, Random Partition Initialization, and kmeans++ Initialization compare with each other?  

Why would you use Correlation-based Distances in k-Means Clustering?  

What are some properties of the Point-to-Centroid Distance?  

Explain the different frameworks used for k-Means Clustering  Related To: Clustering

What is the relationship between k-Means Clustering and PCA?  Related To: Clustering, PCA

 How do you choose the optimal k in k-NN?  Related To: Classification

Would you use K-NN for large datasets?  Related To: Data Processing

What's the difference between k-Nearest Neighbors and Radius Nearest Neighbors?  

What is k-Nearest Neighbors algorithm?  Related To: Supervised Learning

What is the main difference between k-Means and k-Nearest Neighbours?  Related To: K-Means Clustering

Compare K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) and SVM  Related To: SVM

What are some advantages and disadvantages of k-Nearest Neighbors?  
How can you relate the KNN Algorithm to the Bias-Variance tradeoff?  Related To: Bias & Variance

How do you select the value of K for k-Nearest Neighbors?  

If you are using k-Nearest Neighbors, what type of Normalization should be used?  Related To: Data Processing

Does kNN suffer from the Curse of Dimensionality and if it why?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction, Curse of Dimensionality

Compare Decision Trees and k-Nearest Neighbors  Related To: Decision Trees

How do you know if a system of two linear equations has one solution, multiple solutions or no solutions?  

What's the difference between Cross Product and Dot Product?  

What is Frobenius norm?  

How do you find eigenvalues of a matrix? Could you provide an example?
  
What is Ax=b? When does Ax=b has a unique solution?  

 At what conditions does the inverse of a diagonal matrix exist? 
 
 What's the normal vector to the surface S provide below?  

Why is Centering and Scaling the data important before performing PCA?  Related To: PCA, Dimensionality Reduction

Is the Eigendecomposition guaranteed to be unique for a real matrix? If not, then how do we represent it? 
 
What is the determinant of a square matrix? How is it calculated?   

Can the number of nonzero elements in a vector be defined as norm? If no, why?  

How do you diagonalize a matrix?  

What’s the difference between a Matrix and a Tensor?  

What happens if we transform a vector z using a positive definite matrix?  

What is Hadamard product of two matrices?  

What is an Orthogonal Matrix? Why is computationally preferred? 
 
What are positive definite, negative definite, positive semi definite and negative semi definite matrices?  
At what conditions does the inverse of a matrix exist?  

What are the conditions that a norm function has to satisfy?  

How many ways of measure a vector do you know?  

Diagonalize, if it's possible, the following matrix  

Discuss span and linear dependence  

What is broadcasting in connection to Linear Algebra?  Related To: NumPy

How to assign values to a MATLAB matrix on the diagonal with vectorization?  Related To: MATLAB

Given a matrix M, how do you calculate its Singular Value Decomposition?  

What are Singular Eigenvalues, Left Singulars and Right Singulars?  

When performing regularization, when would you choose L1-norm over L2-norm?  

Why do we use Singular Value Decomposition? Why not just use Eigendecomposition?  

Why would you use the Moore-Penrose Pseudoinverse and how would you calculate it?  

What is Linear Regression?  Related To: Supervised Learning

How would you detect Overfitting in Linear Models?  Related To: Model Evaluation

What are types of Linear Regression?  

How can you check if the Regression model fits the data well?   

Define Linear Regression and its structure  Related To: Supervised Learning

How does a Non-Linear regression analysis differ from Linear regression analysis?  

What is the difference between Mean Absolute Error (MAE) vs Mean Squared Error (MSE)?  

What's the difference between Covariance and Correlation?  Related To: Data Processing

Explain the intuition behind Gradient Descent algorithm  Related To: Gradient Descent

Provide an intuitive explanation of the Learning Rate?  

How is the Error calculated in a Linear Regression model?  

Explain what the Intercept Term means  

Why use Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) instead of Mean Absolute Error (MAE)?  

Explain how does the Gradient descent work in Linear Regression  Related To: Gradient Descent

What are the Assumptions of Linear Regression?  
What is the difference between Ordinary Least Squares and Ridge Regression?  
How would you decide on the importance of variables for the Multivariate Regression model?   Related To: Feature Engineering
What are the assumptions before applying the OLS estimator?  Related To: Data Processing
What is the difference between a Regression Model and an ANOVA Model?  
How does it work the Backward Selection Technique?  
In which case you would use Gradient Descent method or Ordinary Least Squares and why?  Related To: Gradient Descent
What are some challenges faced when using a Supervised Regression Model?  Related To: Supervised Learning
Name a disadvantage of R-squared and explain how would you address it?  
What is the difference between Ordinary Least Squares and Lasso regression?  
How is Hypothesis Testing using in Linear Regression?  
Name some Evaluation Metrics for Regression Model and when you would use one?  Related To: Gradient Descent
What is the difference between Linear Regression and Logistic Regression?  Related To: Logistic Regression
Why would you use Normalisation vs Standardisation for Linear Regression?  
Why can't a Linear Regression be used instead of Logistic Regression?  Related To: Logistic Regression
How would you fix Logistic Regression Overfitting problem?  Related To: Model Evaluation, Cost Function
Compare Linear Regression and Decision Trees  Related To: Decision Trees
What's the difference between Homoskedasticity and Heteroskedasticity?  Related To: Statistics
How do you cope with Missing data in Regression?  Related To: Data Processing
Explain the Stepwise Regression technique  Related To: Feature Engineering
How would you detect Collinearity and what is Multicollinearity?  
How would you address the problem of Heteroskedasticity caused for a Measurement error?  Related To: Data Processing
How would you deal with Outliers in your dataset?  Related To: Anomaly Detection, Data Processing
How would you detect Heteroskedasticity?  Related To: Data Processing
Name some advantages of using Gradient descent vs Ordinary Least Squares for Linear Regression  Related To: Gradient Descent
How would you deal with Overfitting in Linear Regression models?  Related To: Model Evaluation
Explain what is an Unrepresentative Dataset and how would you diagnose it?  Related To: Data Processing
How would you compare models using the Akaike Information Criterion?  
How would you check if a Linear Model follows all Regression assumptions?  
How would you implement Linear Regression Function in SQL?  Related To: SQL
What types of Robust Regression Algorithms do you know?  Related To: Anomaly Detection
Provide an intuitive explanation of RANSAC Regression algorithm  
When Logistic Regression can be used?  
Why is Logistic Regression called Regression and not Classification?  
What is a Decision Boundary?  Related To: Classification
How would you make a prediction using a Logistic Regression model?  Related To: Classification
Why don’t we use Mean Squared Error as a cost function in Logistic Regression?  Related To: Cost Function
What's the difference between Softmax and Sigmoid functions?  Related To: Classification
Why is Logistic Regression considered a Linear Model?  
Compare SVM and Logistic Regression in handling outliers  Related To: SVM, Anomaly Detection
What is the difference between Linear Regression and Logistic Regression?  Related To: Linear Regression
Provide a mathematical intuition for Logistic Regression?  
Why can't a Linear Regression be used instead of Logistic Regression?  Related To: Linear Regression
What can you infer from each of the hand drawn decision boundary of Logistic Regression below?  
How a Logistic Regression model is trained?  
How do you use a supervised Logistic Regression for Classification?  Related To: Supervised Learning, Classification
In Logistic Regression, why is the Binary Cross-Entropy loss function convex?  
Explain the Vectorized Implementation of Logistic Regression?  
Explain the Space Complexity Analysis of Logistic Regression   
How can we avoid Over-fitting in Logistic Regression models?  
Imagine that you know there are outliers in your data, would you use Logistic Regression?  Related To: Anomaly Detection, Decision Trees, Random Forest
Name some advantages of using Support Vector Machines vs Logistic Regression for classification  Related To: SVM, Classification
When would you use SVM vs Logistic regression?  Related To: SVM, Classification
Compare Naive Bayes vs with Logistic Regression to solve classification problems  Related To: Naïve Bayes, Classification
Compare Decision Trees and Logistic Regression  Related To: Decision Trees
Can Logistic Regression be used for an Imbalanced Classification problem?  Related To: Classification
How many ways do you know to implement MLOps?  
What is a Model Registry and what are its benefits?  
What's the difference between Static Deployment and Dynamic Deployment?  
What production Testing methods do you know?  
What's the difference between Batch Processing and Stream Processing?  
What is Training-Serving Skew?  
How does the Champion-Challenger technique work?  
What is a structure of a typical ML Artifact?  
What are the pros and cons of using Microservices?  
Why you should package ML models?  
What Feature Attribution methods do you know?  
What's the difference between Continuous Integration, Continuous Delivery and Continuous Deployment?  
What kind of test can you perform in the MLOps cycle?  
What approaches can you take for testing the ML model during the training process?  
Why would you need a Model Store for your MLOps projects?  
What are some good practices for monitoring training in production?  
What are the pros and the cons of using Rolling Deployment?  
What are the benefits of using Blue-Green deployments?  
What are the steps in a basic ML Pipeline?  
How many ways of ML models packaging do you know?  
What are the benefits of CI/CD for Machine Learning systems?  
What are some good practices when performing testing in the MLOps cycle?  
Why would you use feature flags?  
Why would you monitor Feature Attribution instead of Feature Distribution?  
What types of Model Drift problems can you faced and how can you overcome it?  
What are the differences between Canary and Blue-Green strategies deployments?  
Why would you need to use a Feature Store service?  
How does the ML Test Score work?  
What's the difference between A/B testing model deployment strategy and Multi-Arm Bandit?  
When would you use Statistical Methods vs Statistical Process Control for Data Drift detection?
What is a Naïve Bayes Classifier?  
Why Naive Bayes is called Naive?  Related To: Supervised Learning, Classification
What are the basic components of a Content-Based System?  Related To: Recommendation Systems
What Bayes' Theorem (Bayes Rule) is all about?  
Find a probability of dangerous Fire when there is Smoke  Related To: Probability
Can you choose a classifier based on the size of the training set?  Related To: Classification
How would you use Naive Bayes classifier for categorical features? What if some features are numerical?  Related To: Classification
What are some advantages of using Naive Bayes Algorithm?  
How does the Naive Bayes classifier work?  Related To: Classification
What are some disadvantages of using Naive Bayes Algorithm?  
What's the difference between Generative Classifiers and Discriminative Classifiers? Name some examples of each one  Related To: Classification
What's the difference between the likelihood and the posterior probability in Bayesian statistics?  Related To: Probability
How would you test hypotheses using Bayes' Rule?  Related To: Probability
How do you use Naive Bayes model for Collaborative Filtering?  Related To: Recommendation Systems
What is Bayesian Network?  
Compare Naive Bayes vs with Logistic Regression to solve classification problems  Related To: Logistic Regression, Classification
What are the trade-offs between the different types of Classification Algorithms? How would do you choose the best one?  Related To: Ensemble Learning, Classification
Are there any problems using Naive Bayes for Classification?  Related To: Classification
Does Noisy Data benefit Bayesian?  Related To: Data Mining
Why to use NumPy?  
Compute the min/max for each row for a NumPy 2D array  
What is the difference between ndarray and array in NumPy?  
Explain what is ndarray in NumPy  
How would you convert a Pandas DataFrame into a NumPy array?  
What are the advantages of NumPy over regular Python lists?  
What are the differences between np.mean() vs np.average() in Python NumPy?  
What are the differences between NumPy arrays and matrices?  
What is the difference between Vectorisation vs Broadcasting in NumPy?  
Explain what is Vectorization in NumPy  
What is the difference between flatten and ravel functions in NumPy?  
What does einsum do in NumPy?  
What is the most efficient way to map a function over a NumPy array?  
What is the purpose of meshgrid in Python/NumPy?  Related To: Python
What is broadcasting in connection to Linear Algebra?  Related To: Linear Algebra
Is there a difference between Numpy var() and Pandas var()?  Related To: Pandas
How to normalize an array in NumPy to a Unit Vector?  
What's the difference between a View and a Shallow Copy of a NumPy array?  
What are Strides in NumPy? How does it work?  
What is the difference between the following assignment methods?  
What is the difference between contiguous and non-contiguous arrays?  
What are some main reason why NumPy is so fast?  
What is Fortran contiguous arrays?  
Calculate the Euclidean Distance between two points   
How to access the i-th column of a NumPy multidimensional array?  
How to find all occurrences of an Element in a list  Related To: Python
How would you reverse a NumPy array?  
What is the difference between test[:,0] vs test[:,[0]]? When would you use one?  
Extract all numbers between a given range from a NumPy array  
What's the easiest way to implement a moving average with NumPy?  
How to find all the local maxima (or peaks) in a 1D array?  
Convert array of indices to One-Hot encoded NumPy array  
How to convert a numeric array to a categorical (text) array?  
How would you get indices of N-max values in a NumPy array?  
Transpose matrix using einsum similar to np.transpose(arr)  
How to convert an array of arrays into a flat 1D array?  
Write the einsum equivalent of inner, outer, sum, and multiplication functions  
Consider an array Z = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14], how to generate an array R = [[1,2,3,4], [2,3,4,5], [3,4,5,6], ..., [11,12,13,14]]?  
Consider a one-dimensional array Z, build a two-dimensional array whose first row is (Z[0],Z[1],Z[2]) and each subsequent row is shifted by 1 (last row should be (Z[-3],Z[-2],Z[-1]))  
Sum over last two axis at once  
How would you detect Overfitting in Linear Models?  Related To: Linear Regression
What is Underfitting in Machine Learning?  Related To: Machine Learning
What is Hyper-Parameters in ML Model?  Related To: Machine Learning
What is Overfitting in Machine Learning?  Related To: Machine Learning
What is a model Learning Rate? Is a high learning rate always good?  Related To: Machine Learning
How to know whether your model is suffering from the problem of Exploding Gradients?  Related To: Deep Learning, Neural Networks
What methods of Hyperparameters Tuning do you know?  Related To: Optimisation, ML Design Patterns, Dimensionality Reduction
What are the difference between Type I and Type II errors?  Related To: Machine Learning, Data Processing
How does ROC curve and AUC value help measure how good a model is?  Related To: Classification
What performance parameters can be calculated using Confusion Matrix?  
How would you prevent Overfitting when designing an Artificial Neural Network?  Related To: Neural Networks
How would you fix Logistic Regression Overfitting problem?  Related To: Linear Regression, Cost Function
What is a Confusion Matrix?  Related To: Supervised Learning, Classification
What are some advantages and disadvantages of using AUC to measure the performance of the model?  Related To: Classification
What is the F-Score?  Related To: Statistics, Classification
How do you reduce the risk of making a Type I and Type II error?  Related To: Statistics
How is AUC - ROC curve used in classification problems?   Related To: Classification
How would you use a Confusion Matrix for determining a model performance?  Related To: Data Processing, Classification
If one algorithm has Higher Precision but Lower Recall than other, how can you tell which algorithm is better?  
What is BIC?  
How would you deal with Overfitting in Linear Regression models?  Related To: Linear Regression
How would you choose an evaluation metric for an Imbalanced classification?  Related To: Classification
What is AIC?  Related To: Classification
What is MDL?  
What are Concordance and Discordance?  
Compare AIC and BIC methods for model selection   
What are some approaches to get a quantitative estimate of a model's Maximum Predictive Power given a certain level of noise?  Related To: Data Processing
When Overfitting can be useful?  Related To: ML Design Patterns
Why would you need to use the Continued Model Evaluation Design Pattern?  Related To: ML Design Patterns
What's the difference between ROC and Precision-Recall Curves?  Related To: Classification
How to interpret F-measure values?  Related To: Classification
Are there any troubles when using Early Stopping?  Related To: ML Design Patterns, Data Processing, Neural Networks
What is Optimisation in Machine Learning?  
What are Non-Differentiable Objective Functions?  
What are Bayesian Optimization Methods?  
Why do you need to know Convex Optimization?  
What are Differentiable Objective Functions?  
What methods of Hyperparameters Tuning do you know?  Related To: ML Design Patterns, Model Evaluation, Dimensionality Reduction
When would you use Grid Search vs Random Search for Hyperparameter Tuning?  Related To: ML Design Patterns, Dimensionality Reduction
What is Random Search Optimization?  
How does the Adam method of Stochastic Gradient Descent work?  Related To: Gradient Descent
How does Batch Size affect the Convergence of SGD and why?  Related To: Gradient Descent
When are Genetic Algorithms a good choice for Optimisation?  Related To: Genetic Algorithms
How is AdaGrad used to optimize a Learning Rate?  
When should we use Algorithms like Adam as opposed to SGD?  Related To: Gradient Descent
Compare Batch Gradient Descent and Stochastic Gradient Descent  Related To: Gradient Descent
When you are Optimizing a Neural Network, does it make sense to combine both Momentum and Weight Decay to improve the performance?  Related To: Neural Networks
When Optimizing a Neural Network, how do you define the Termination Condition for Gradient Descent?  Related To: Gradient Descent
Why is Newton's Method not used in Optimisation as opposed to Gradient Descent?  
Why does Newton's Method only use First and Second Derivatives, not Third or Higher Derivatives?  
How do you use the Convex Optimization Approach to Minimize Regret?  
Compare using Newton's Method and Gradient Descent for Optimisation  
What is the difference between Momentum based Gradient Descent and Nesterov's Accelerated Gradient Descent?  Related To: Gradient Descent
In what situations would you prefer Coordinate Descent over Gradient Descent?  Related To: Gradient Descent
What is the Mirror Descent?  Related To: Gradient Descent
Explain in detail how Momentum-based Gradient Descent and Nesterov's Accelerated Gradient Descent work  Related To: Gradient Descent
In Random Forests, how do you optimize the Number of Trees T in the Forest?  Related To: Random Forest
Should Training Samples Randomly Drawn for Mini-Batch Training Neural Networks be drawn with or without Replacement?  Related To: Neural Networks
Why is Newton's Method not sensitive to ill-conditioned Hessian?  
In Hyperparameter Optimization, would you use Random Search or Grid Search to achieve a better performance?  
When you are Optimizing your Neural Network, is it a good idea to Prune the Network?  Related To: Neural Networks
For both Convex, and Non-Convex Problems, does the Gradient in SGD always point to the global extreme value?  Related To: Gradient Descent
How Bayesian Optimisation is used in Hyperparameter Tuning?  
What does "almost all local minimum have very similar function value to the global optimum" mean?  
What is an Optimization Strategy which can be used to solve Convex Problems but is Blind to the Problem Structure?  
 How Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is used for Dimensionality Reduction?  Related To: Dimension Reduction, Unsupervised Learning
What is Principal Component Analysis (PCA)?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction
Can we use PCA for feature selection?  Related To: Feature Engineering
How is the first principal component axis selected in PCA?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction
Why is Centering and Scaling the data important before performing PCA?  Related To: Linear Algebra, Dimensionality Reduction
What is the difference between PCA and Random Projection approaches?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction
What are some advantages of using LLE over PCA?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning, Dimensionality Reduction
How do you perform Principal Component Analysis (PCA)?  Related To: Feature Engineering
Would you use PCA on large datasets or there is a better alternative?  Related To: Scikit-Learn
What's the difference between PCA and t-SNE?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction
Is PCA checks what characteristics are redundant and discards them?  Related To: Dimension Reduction
What is Sparse PCA?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction
How is PCA used for Anomaly Detection?  Related To: Anomaly Detection, Unsupervised Learning
When would you use Manifold Learning techniques over PCA?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction
What's the difference between Principal Component Analysis and Independent Component Analysis?  Related To: Feature Engineering
What is the relationship between k-Means Clustering and PCA?  Related To: Clustering, K-Means Clustering
How can you obtain the principal components and the eigenvalues from Scikit-Learn PCA?  Related To: Scikit-Learn
How to create new columns derived from existing columns in Pandas?  
How are iloc() and loc() different?  
What are the operations that Pandas Groupby method is based on ?  
Describe how you will get the names of columns of a DataFrame in Pandas  
In Pandas, what do you understand as a bar plot and how can you generate a bar plot visualization  
How would you iterate over rows in a DataFrame in Pandas?  
How to check whether a Pandas DataFrame is empty?  
What does the in operator do in Pandas?  
How does the groupby() method works in Pandas?  
Why do should make a copy of a DataFrame in Pandas?  
Name some methods you know to replace NaN values of a DataFrame in Pandas  
Define the different ways a DataFrame can be created in Pandas  
Name the advantage of using applymap() vs apply() method  
Describe how you can combine (merge) data on Common Columns or Indices?  
Compare the Pandas methods: map(), applymap(), apply()  
When cleaning data, mention how you will identify outliers present in a DataFrame object  
What is the difference between join() and merge() in Pandas?  
What is the difference(s) between merge() and concat() in Pandas?  
When to use merge() over concat() and vice-versa in Pandas?  
Is it a good idea to iterate over DataFrame rows in Pandas?  
Name some type conversion methods in Pandas  
How will you write DataFrame to PostgreSQL table?  
How can I achieve the equivalents of SQL's IN and NOT IN in Pandas?  
How would you create Test (20%) and Train (80%) Datasets with Pandas?  Related To: Scikit-Learn
Is there a difference between Numpy var() and Pandas var()?  Related To: NumPy
How would you convert continuous values into discrete values in Pandas?  
When would you use Scikit-Learn OneHotEncoder() vs Pandas pd.get_dummies()?   Related To: Scikit-Learn
What's the difference between pivot_table() and groupby()?  
What's the difference between interpolate() and fillna() in Pandas?  
What's the difference between at and iat in Pandas?  
What are some best-practices to work with Large Files in Pandas?  
Explain what is Multi-indexing in Pandas?  
What are some best practises to optimize Pandas code?  
What is Vectorization in a context of using Pandas?  
How would you deal with large CSV files in Pandas?  
What's the difference between apply and transform on a Group object?   
What does the stack() and unstack() functions do in a DataFrame?  
How is a Pandas crosstab different from a Pandas pivot_table? When would you use each one?  
What is the pipe method? When you would use it?  
How do you construct a MultiIndex for a DataFrame? Provide an example  
What is a Probability Distribution?  
What is the difference between the Bernoulli and Binomial distribution?  
What's the difference between Probability Mass Functions and Density Probability Functions?  
What is the difference between a Combination and a Permutation?  
Find a probability of dangerous Fire when there is Smoke  Related To: Naïve Bayes
What is a Poisson process?  
What's the difference between Disjoint Events and Independent Events?  
What's the difference between the likelihood and the posterior probability in Bayesian statistics?  Related To: Naïve Bayes
When is an event Independent of Itself?  
What's the difference between Binomial Distribution and Geometric Distribution?  
How would you test hypotheses using Bayes' Rule?  Related To: Naïve Bayes
Name some Probability Distributions you know  
What is the Bayesian approach to probability?  
What's the difference between Cumulative Distribution Functions and Probability Density Functions?  
How do you transform a Skewed Distribution into a Normal Distribution?  
How would you Calibrate Probabilities for a classification model?  Related To: Classification
Name some methods you will use to estimate the Parameters of a Probability Distribution  
How would you check if two events are Independent?  
Explain if the inference using the Frequentist Approach will always yield the same result as the Bayesian approach?  
What is the Cumulative Distribution Function?  
Why would you use Probability Calibration?  Related To: Classification
What is the difference between Bayesian Estimation and Maximum Likelihood Estimation?  
What's the difference between Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) and in which cases would use each one?  Related To: CNN, Neural Networks
What are the uses of using RNN in NLP?  Related To: NLP, Neural Networks
Why are RNNs (Recurrent Neural Network) better than MLPs at predicting Time Series Data?  Related To: Time Series
What's the difference between Recurrent Neural Networks and Recursive Neural Networks?  Related To: Neural Networks
How many dimensions must the inputs of an RNN layer have? What does each dimension represent? What about its outputs?  Related To: Neural Networks
Why would you use Encoder-Decoder RNNs vs plain sequence-to-sequence RNNs for automatic translation?  Related To: NLP, Neural Networks
What's the difference between Traditional Feedforward Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks?  Related To: Neural Networks
What are the main difficulties when training RNNs? How can you handle them?  Related To: Neural Networks
What types of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) do you know?  Related To: Neural Networks
What's the difference between Stateful RNN vs Stateless RNN? What are their pros and cons?  Related To: NLP, Neural Networks
When would you use MLP, CNN, and RNN?  Related To: CNN, Neural Networks
Explain the intuition behind RNN having a Vanishing Gradient Problem?  Related To: Neural Networks
Compare Feed-forward and Recurrent Neural Network  Related To: Neural Networks
How to calculate the output of a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)?  Related To: Neural Networks
Explain how a Recurrent Architecture for leveraging visual attention works  Related To: Neural Networks
How does LSTM compare to RNN?  Related To: Neural Networks
Why would you want to use 1D convolutional layers in an RNN?  Related To: Neural Networks
How would you define Random Forest?  Related To: Ensemble Learning
Explain how the Random Forests give output for Classification, and Regression problems?  
Does Random Forest need Pruning? Why or why not?  
What are Ensemble Methods?  Related To: Ensemble Learning
How is a Random Forest related to Decision Trees?  Related To: Decision Trees, Ensemble Learning
What are some hyperparameters in Random Forest?  
How would you find the optimal size of the Bootstrapped Dataset?  
Is it necessary to do Cross Validation in Random Forest?  
Is Random Forest an Ensemble Algorithm?  Related To: Ensemble Learning
How do you determine the Depth of the Individual Trees?  
How does Random Forest handle missing values?  
What is Entropy criteria used to split a node?  
What is Variable Selection and what are its Objectives in Random Forest?  
How would you improve the performance of Random Forest?  Related To: Feature Engineering
How is it possible to perform Unsupervised Learning with Random Forest?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning
Why Random Forest models are considered not interpretable?  
What is Out-of-Bag Error?  
How does the number of trees affect the Random Forest model?  
What does Random refer to in Random Forest?  
When would you use SVMs over Random Forest and vice-versa?  Related To: SVM
Explain the advantages of using Random Forest  
What are some drawbacks of using Random Forest?  
Explain the concept behind BAGGing  Related To: Ensemble Learning
What is the difference between OOB score and validation score?  Related To: Decision Trees, Ensemble Learning
What are proximities in Random Forests?  
How would you define the criteria to split on at each node of the trees?  
Why is the training efficiency of Random Forest better than Bagging?  
What is AdaBoost algorithm?  
What is the Isolation Forest Algorithm?  Related To: Anomaly Detection
How are feature_importances_ in RandomForestClassifier determined in Scikit-Learn?  Related To: Scikit-Learn
How can you tell the importance of features using Random Forest?  
What is Gini Impurity used to split a node?  
Imagine that you know there are outliers in your data, would you use Logistic Regression?  Related To: Anomaly Detection, Decision Trees, Logistic Regression
Give some reasons to choose Random Forests over Neural Networks  Related To: Ensemble Learning, Neural Networks
What are some advantages of Neural Network over Random Forest?  Related To: Neural Networks
Explain how it is possible to get feature importance in Random Forest using Out Of Bag Error  
Does Random Forest suffer from the Curse of Dimensionality?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction, Curse of Dimensionality
In Random Forests, how do you optimize the Number of Trees T in the Forest?  Related To: Optimisation
How would you find the optimal number of random features to consider at each split?  Related To: Ensemble Learning
Explain a method of Variable Selection for Random Forest  
What technique would you use to prevent Swamping and Masking for Isolation Forest Anomaly Detection?  Related To: Anomaly Detection
What are Recommendation Systems?  
How are Knowledge-based Recommender Systems different from Collaborative and Content-based Recommender Systems?  
What is the difference between Collaborative and Content based Recommender Systems?  
What are some Domain-Specific Challenges in Recommender Systems?  
What are some applications of Recommender Systems?  
What is a Model-Based Collaborative approach?  
What are the basic components of a Content-Based System?  Related To: Naïve Bayes
What is the difference between Personalization Systems, User-Adaptive Systems, and Recommender Systems?  
What is the basic structure of a Content-Based Recommender System?  
How would you create a Recommender System for Text Inputs? PY Related To: Python
How do you use Naive Bayes model for Collaborative Filtering?  Related To: Naïve Bayes
How do you maintain User Privacy when collecting Data for Recommendation Systems?  
What are some advantages of using Neighborhood-based approaches for Recommender Systems?  
How does the Neighborhood-based Recommendation work?  
What is the difference between Constraint-based Recommender Systems and Case-based Recommender Systems?  
What is the importance of Multi-Armed Bandit Methods for Computational Advertising?  
How do you choose between User-Based and Item-Based Neighborhood Recommender System?  
What are the different types of Memory-Based Collaborative approaches?  
What are some advantages of Content-Based Recommendation paradigm over Collaborative-Based Recommendation?  
What are the different methods that you can collect User Data for the Recommendation Process?  
What are the differences between Computational Advertising and Recommender Systems?  
How should Recommender Systems work in a Changing Environment?  
What are the differences between Content-Based and Collaborative Methods in terms of Bias and Variance?  Related To: Bias & Variance
What is the difference between Factorisation Machines and Matrix Factorisation?  
What is the difference between Item-Item Collaborative Filtering and Market Basket Analysis?  
How can SVD be used in Collaborative Filtering in Theory?  
What algorithm does Google News Personalisation Engine use?  
What is the difference between Collaborative Quality Filtering and Collaborative Filtering?  
How do you extend Decision Trees to Collaborative Filtering?  Related To: Decision Trees
Can SVD work for Recommender Systems?  
What is Support Vector Machine?  Related To: Supervised Learning
What is Hyperplane in SVM?  
What are Support Vectors in SVMs?  
What are Hard-Margin and Soft-Margin SVMs?  
What types of SVM kernels do you know?  
Why would you use the Kernel Trick?  Related To: Classification
What are some applications of SVMs?  
Name some advantages of SVM  
For N dimensional data set what is the minimum possible number of Support Vectors?  
What happens when there is no clear Hyperplane in SVM?  
How can less Training Data give Higher Accuracy?  Related To: Data Processing
What is the Hinge Loss in SVM?  Related To: Classification, Cost Function
What is the role of C hyperparameter in SVM?  
While designing an SVM classifier, what values should the designer select?  
Compare K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) and SVM  Related To: K-Nearest Neighbors
What is the difference between Classification and Regression when using SVM?  
What are the Convex Hulls?  
How to use one-class SVM for Anomalies Detections?  Related To: Anomaly Detection
Compare SVM and Logistic Regression in handling outliers  Related To: Anomaly Detection, Logistic Regression
What is the Kernel Trick?  
When would you use SVMs over Random Forest and vice-versa?  Related To: Random Forest
What are some similarities between SVMs and Neural Networks?  Related To: Neural Networks
What are some differences between SVMs and Neural Networks?  Related To: Neural Networks
When SVM is not a good approach?  
What is Ranking SVM?  
What are Support Vectors?  
Provide an intuitive explanation of Linear Support Vector Machines (SVMs)  Related To: Classification
What is Quadratic Optimisation Problem in SVM?  
What are Polynomial Kernels?  
What is the difference between a Decision Boundary and a Hyperplane?  
Does Redundant data affect an SVM-based classifier?  Related To: Data Processing
Why is the Lagrangian important in SVM?  
What is the Dual Problem?  
How does the value of Gamma affect the SVM?  
How does the value of C affect the SVM?  
Is there a relation between the Number of Support Vectors and the classifiers performance?  
Explain the dual form of SVM formulation  
What is Structured SVM?  
What is Sequential Minimal Optimization?  Related To: Neural Networks
Name some advantages of using Support Vector Machines vs Logistic Regression for classification  Related To: Logistic Regression, Classification
When would you use SVM vs Logistic regression?  Related To: Logistic Regression, Classification
What are Slack Variables in SVM?  
What are C and Gamma (γ) with regards to a Support Vector Machine?  
What are Radial Basis Function Kernels?  
How would you deal with classification on Non-linearly Separable data?  Related To: Classification
Can you explain PAC learning theory intuitively?  Related To: Machine Learning
What is the difference between Deep Learning and SVM?  Related To: Deep Learning
Can Support Vector Machines be used for Outlier Detection?  Related To: Anomaly Detection
How does the Algorithm "The 10% You Don't Need" remove the Redundant Data?  Related To: Data Processing
Does linear SVMs suffer from the Curse of Dimensionality?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction, Curse of Dimensionality
What is Mercer's theorem and how is it related to SVM?  
How do you approximate RBF kernel to scale with large numbers of training samples?  
Why is SVM not popular nowadays? Also, when did SVM perform poorly?  
Why does SVM work well in practice, even if the reproduced space is very high dimensional?  
What is the Probably Approximately Correct learning?  Related To: Machine Learning
How to select Kernel for SVM?  
What is Data Leakage and how do you avoid it in Scikit-Learn?  
How to obtain reproducible results across multiple program executions in Scikit-Learn?  
What's the difference between GridSearchCV and RandomSearchCV? What is the advantage of each one? 
What are the basic objects that a ML pipeline should contain?  Related To: Feature Engineering
What's the problem if you call the fit() method multiple times with different X and y data? How can you overcome this issue?  
What's the difference between StandardScaler and Normalizer and when would you use each one?  
What is the difference between Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) function and SelectFromModel in Scikit-Learn?  
How would you create Test (20%) and Train (80%) Datasets with Pandas?  Related To: Pandas
While using KNeighborsClassifier, when would you set weights="distance"?  
How do you optimize the Ridge Regression parameter?  
When to use OneHotEncoder vs LabelEncoder in Scikit-Learn?  Related To: Data Processing
Is max_depth in Scikit-learn the equivalent of pruning in decision trees? If not, how a decision tree is pruned using scikit?  
What's the difference between StratifiedKFold (with shuffle = True) and StratifiedShuffleSplit in Scikit-Learn?  Related To: Data Processing
Suppose you have multiple CPU cores available, how can you use them to reduce the computational cost?  
What's the difference between fit(), transform() and fit_transform()? Why do we need these separate methods?  
How do you scale data that has many outliers in Scikit-Learn?  
When would you use Scikit-Learn OneHotEncoder() vs Pandas pd.get_dummies()?   Related To: Pandas
How would you split Train and Test samples in imbalanced classifications?  
How are feature_importances_ in RandomForestClassifier determined in Scikit-Learn?  Related To: Random Forest
What is the difference between cross_validate and cross_val_score in Scikit-Learn?  
Would you use PCA on large datasets or there is a better alternative?  Related To: PCA
Are there any advantage of XGBoost over GradientBoostingClassifier?  
How does sklearn KNeighborsClassifier compute class probabilites when setting weights='uniform'?  
Can you use SVM with a custom kernel in Scikit-Learn?  
Does scikit-learn have a forward selection/stepwise regression algorithm?  
When you would use StratifiedKFold instead of KFold?  
How does Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) works in Scikit-learn?  
When you would use TheilSenRegressor, RANSAC and HuberRegressor?  
How to adjust the hyperparameters of MLP classifier using GridSearchCV to get more perfect performance?  
What is Linear Regression?  Related To: Linear Regression
What are Decision Trees?  Related To: Decision Trees
What do you understand by the term Supervised Learning?  
What is Support Vector Machine?  Related To: SVM
What is a Perceptron?  Related To: Neural Networks, Classification
What are the two types of problems solved by Supervised Learning?  
What is the difference between Supervised Learning and Unsupervised Learning?  Related to: Unsupervised Learning
Why Naive Bayes is called Naive?  Related To: Naïve Bayes, Classification
What is the difference between KNN and K-means Clustering?  Related To: K-Means Clustering, Unsupervised Learning, Classification
Explain the structure of a Decision Tree  Related To: Decision Trees
Define Linear Regression and its structure  Related To: Linear Regression
Give a real life example of Supervised Learning and Unsupervised Learning  Related To: Unsupervised Learning
What is Bias in Machine Learning?  Related To: Bias & Variance
How are the different nodes of decision trees represented?  Related To: Decision Trees
What is the Bias-Variance tradeoff?  Related To: Bias & Variance
What is the difference between a Regression problem and a Classification problem?  
What is k-Nearest Neighbors algorithm?  Related To: K-Nearest Neighbors
In statistics, what is the difference between Bias and Error?  Related To: Statistics
What is Cross-Validation and why is it important in supervised learning?  Related To: Data Processing
What is the difference between a Multiclass problem and a Multilabel problem?  Related To: Clustering
What is the Bias Error?  Related To: Bias & Variance
What is the Variance Error?  Related To: Bias & Variance
What are some challenges faced when using a Supervised Regression Model?  Related To: Linear Regression
How do you use a supervised Logistic Regression for Classification?  Related To: Logistic Regression, Classification
What is a Confusion Matrix?  Related To: Model Evaluation, Classification
How is Gradient Boosting used to improve Supervised Learning?  Related To: Ensemble Learning
What are some disadvantages of Supervised Learning?  
What is the difference between Supervised and Unsupervised learning?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning
Compare Reinforced Learning and Supervised Learning  Related To: Reinforcement Learning
What is the difference between Gradient Boosting and Adaptive Boosting?  Related To: Decision Trees
What is Semi-Supervised learning?  
How do you choose between Supervised and Unsupervised learning?  Related To: Unsupervised Learning
What is Time Series?  
How are CNNs used for Time Series Prediction?  Related To: CNN, Neural Networks
What are some common Data Preparation Operations you would use for Time Series Data?  
How do you handle Missing Values in Time-Series Data?  
How the IQR (Interquartile Range) is used in Time Series Forecasting?  Related To: Anomaly Detection
What is the Sliding Window method for Time Series Forecasting?  
Why does a Time Series have to be Stationary?  
What are some real-world applications of Time-Series Forecasting?  
What does "irregularly spaced spatial data" mean?  
What are some examples of Time-Series Data which can be Mined?  
Can Non-Sequential Deep Learning Models outperform Sequential Models in Time-Series Forecasting?  
If your Time-Series Dataset is very long, what architecture would you use?  
How is Pearson Correlation used with Time Series?  
What statistical methods can I use to assess the differences between the time series?  
List some Advantages of using State-Space Models and Kalman Filter for Time-Series Modelling  
What is Discrete Wavelet Transform?  
What would be some reasons that LSTM Models do not improve the Time-Series Forecasting significantly as compared to MLP Models?  
Why are RNNs (Recurrent Neural Network) better than MLPs at predicting Time Series Data?  Related To: RNN
How do you Normalise Time-Series Data?  
What are some different Neural Architectures for predicting Time-Series Values?  
What are some advantages of using MLP (Multilayer Perceptrons) for Time Series Prediction?  
How do you mine Contextual Spatial Attributes?  
Compare some Forecasting Techniques for Stationary and Non-stationary Time-Series  
What process do you go through to design a Neural Network for Time-Series Forecasting?  
How would you compare the two Time Series shown below?  
What is a Moving Average Process? Give some Real-life Examples.  
What are some Similarity Measures used for Sequence Data?  Related To: Data Mining
What are some Similarity Measures which can be used with Time Series data?  
How do you Auto-correlate Discrete and Abstract Time Series Data?  
Explain briefly the different methods of Noise-Removal for Time-Series Data  
What are some different ways of Trajectory Patterns Mining?  
Explain how the Facebook Prophet is used to predict Time-Series Data  
After you develop a Real-Time Classifier of Time Series Events, how do you know if a Low Power Embedded System can classify events in real-time?  
Can Hidden Markov Models be used to model Time-Series data?  
Why does Time-Series have to be Stationary before you can run ARIMA or ARM Models?  
When would you use Sequential Split of data?   Related To: ML Design Patterns, Data Processing
Compare State-Space Models and ARIMA models  
What are some common Machine Learning problems that Unsupervised Learning can help with?  Related To: Feature Engineering
What are some applications of Unsupervised Learning?  
What is the difference between Supervised Learning and Unsupervised Learning?  Related To: Supervised Learning
How Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is used for Dimensionality Reduction?  Related To: Dimension Reduction, PCA
What is the difference between KNN and K-means Clustering?  Related To: K-Means Clustering, Supervised Learning, Classification
Give a real life example of Supervised Learning and Unsupervised Learning  Related To: Supervised Learning
What is the Curse of Dimensionality and how can Unsupervised Learning help with it?  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction, Curse of Dimensionality
How can Neural Networks be Unsupervised?  Related To: Autoencoders, Neural Networks
How is it possible to perform Unsupervised Learning with Random Forest?  Related To: Random Forest
How does K-Means perform Clustering?  Related To: K-Means Clustering
What is the difference between Supervised and Unsupervised learning?  Related To: Supervised Learning
What are some differences between Unsupervised Learning and Reinforcement Learning?  
Describe the approach used in Denoising Autoencoders  Related To: Autoencoders
What is the difference between the two types of Hierarchical Clustering?  Related To: Clustering
What are some advantages of using LLE over PCA?  Related To: PCA, Dimensionality Reduction
What’s the LDA algorithm? Give an example.  
What is the difference and connection between Clustering and Dimension Reduction?  Related To: Clustering, Dimensionality Reduction
Why does K-Means have a higher bias when compared to Gaussian Mixture Model?  Related To: Clustering
Explain the Locally Linear Embedding algorithm for Dimensionality Reduction  Related To: Dimensionality Reduction
How do you choose between Supervised and Unsupervised learning?  Related To: Supervised Learning
Can you use Batch Normalisation in Sparse Auto-encoders?  Related To: Autoencoders
What are the main differences between Sparse Autoencoders and Convolution Autoencoders?  Related To: Autoencoders
What are some differences between the Undercomplete Autoencoder and the Sparse Autoencoder?  Related To: Autoencoders
How is PCA used for Anomaly Detection?  Related To: Anomaly Detection, PCA
Explain how a cluster is formed in the DBSCAN Clustering Algorithm  Related To: Clustering
How to tell if data is clustered enough for clustering algorithms to produce meaningful results?  Related To: Clustering, K-Means Clustering
Are GANs unsupervised?  


